Thank you.
Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for coming to my talk on using
bias bits to test
key moves, ACPI, and SM bias implementation.
My talk is going to be structured around these four points.
First, we're going to discuss what's bias bits and why we're
using bias bits to test key moves.
And then I'll be talking about some of the implementation
choices of my test framework.
And then I'll describe the test framework itself.
And then I'll give a brief overview, depending on how much
time I have on the changes that I made in bias bits to get
everything working together.
So what's bias bits?
It's actually a software written by Josh Triplett.
He wrote this software after he left Google.
And the software had actually a real-life usefulness in the
sense that the bias developers and Intel, they used it to test
their bias implementations on real physical hardware boxes.
And what this software comprises of is that you can exercise
ACPI and SM bias objects in the bias directly from a grub
environment.
And even though it's a grub environment, it also has Python
built into it.
So you don't have to write tests using Bashish, which is grub's
native scripting language.
You can write all your tests using Python.
And all of this is executed from ring zero.
So there is no need to actually go from ring three to ring zero
to execute your tests, et cetera.
All of the components, that is grub, Python, ACPI, which is
what bias bits uses to execute ACPI components.
All of these comes together in the form for bootable ISO,
which is then used to boot actual physical box or virtual
machine, in our case.
So this is what it looks like in a most simplest form.
You just run Kimu KVM here.
Using the bits ISO, and it spawns a virtual machine.
It executes a bunch of tests, and then generates the logs,
and it pushes the log out of the virtual machine.
I'll describe that a little bit later.
And then it shuts down the VM.
So why use bias bits for testing?
Well, first of all, like I said, all the tests you can write
are based using Python in a pre-operating system environment.
And so that means that we don't have to go through the OS to
execute bias components, but we can directly execute ACPI from
the grub environment itself.
And it has already ACPI CA built in so that we can directly
execute ACPI methods.
And the current test framework that we have in Kimu is basically
what it does is it spawns a VM.
It extracts the bias, the ACPI tables from the virtual machine's
memory, and then compares those tables with some golden master
blobs that is already checked into Kimu repository.
And then it compares the golden master blobs with the actual
table which is what Kimu is using.
And then if there is a difference between the two, it throws an error.
So the main idea is that any time we're making changes into Kimu
that affects ACPI or some bias tables, we can go through,
inspect the changes, and we can make sure that the changes are
not breaking anything.
But what we don't have is an ability to actually execute the
tables from a running VM.
And using bias bits gives us the ability to execute the tables.
So that's the main advantage of using bias bits.
So let's discuss some of the implementation choice of the test
work.
So bias bits is a software in itself.
So it has its own repository.
And then we have the Kimu repository.
And these two repositories, in the Kimu repository, we have all
the changes that basically decide the ACPI implementation.
And bias bits repository has all the bias bits specific stuff,
like all the build scripts, all its internal logic,
and the two things are kind of separate.
And adding to the complication is the fact that bias bits has,
so George gave up developing on bias bits around circa 2017.
And any effort that I made to reach out to him failed,
so he didn't respond to my queries.
So we couldn't actually directly use the bias bits upstream.
So what we had to do is we had to fork the upstream bias bit
software and put it in GitLab under the Kimu project,
and then make changes to it.
And those changes involved a lot of build fixes.
So bias bits turns out to be something that is not buildable
under the Neo compiler and tool chain because nobody has been
maintaining it.
So we had to make a lot of changes to make bias bits just build.
And then a lot of fixes to get all the parts of the test
framework working together, which I'll describe a little bit
later.
And then we have the Kimu repository that has potentially
the changes that affect the tables.
And so the people who are actually making changes to the ACPI
implementation in Kimu, they care about the Kimu repository.
They don't know or understand the bias bits repository.
So now we have to decide how these two repositories are going
to work together.
So one of the questions is, so do we make bias bits repository
as a module of the Kimu repository?
And there has been a lot of discussions upstream on that.
And it turns out that people really hate some modules because
of a multitude of reasons.
And you can actually look into this thread upstream.
And it has a lot of interesting discussion as to why we don't
want to have another submodule.
So how do we keep the two repositories in sync with each
other is an interesting question.
And then from developer's point of view, whoever is making
changes to, say, ACPI implementation in Kimu, do we make
them go back and forth between the two repositories?
Say, for example, they make a change in Kimu that affects
the tables, and they want to write a test for it.
So do they go to the bias bits repository, make the change,
build bias bits into an ISO, come back to the Kimu repository,
point the test to the new ISO, run the test.
Oh, something doesn't work and fail.
OK, let's go back to the bias bits repository, make changes,
come back to the Kimu repository, and go back and forth.
That's kind of complicated.
And developers don't like to do that because they don't really
care about bias bits.
They just want to test.
They want to add a test to exercise their changes.
Right?
So another also going to question is what kind of test
framework do we use to write the bias bits
tests?
Do we use Q-test framework?
Or do we use something else like the integration
Avogadro test framework?
Now, the existing test that I just described before that
compares the blobs, it's called Biostable Test, and it's
actually a Q-test framework.
And people are familiar with that framework, right?
Because any time people make changes to SAP implementation,
that's the test that fails because it compares tables blobs
and it right away fails saying that you have these new
changes in the tables.
You better have a look at it.
So people actually understand how Biostables Test work.
But do we use the Q-test framework then?
The problem with that is that Q-test framework is really
not written for something like spawning a VM,
the managing all the issues of VM management,
collecting the logs, dealing with errors,
and then shutting down the VM, et cetera.
So I started writing a Q-test for bias bits,
and then I realized that it's not really suitable.
So I started then looking into writing a new Python-based
test framework for just doing the VM management and then
using bias bits with it.
And then finally, when I proposed that upstream,
then somebody pointed me to the Avogadro framework,
and I looked at it, and it was right away,
Avogadro framework already had all the libraries that deal
with VM management.
And all I had to do was just focus on the bias bits part
and develop that part.
So Avogadro Test framework kind of really nicely fit into
what we really wanted to do and what was available already
without doing any new development.
So finally, we went with the Avogadro Test framework.
But then the question is, how do we make people familiar
with how to run Avogadro tests?
Because not all people are familiar with this test framework.
Not all people run integration tests.
So then we decided that, OK, how about we write
a documentation for bias bits test?
And that's what we did.
So Kimu repository has documentation
to how to run a few simple commands to execute the test
framework.
So I just described all this stuff.
So let's describe what the test framework is all about.
Now, before I'll just keep a couple of slides,
and I'll show you the diagram here.
So like I said, there are two repositories.
There is one Kimu repository, and there is one bias bits
repository.
So in bias bits repository, we want
to maintain everything that's related to bias bits
and nothing related to Kimu or a testing ACPI.
So the way we did it is that in the fork, which
is residing right here, we have all these branches in there.
Now, the Kimu bits branch is the one where
we have made all the changes specific to using bias bits
for Kimu.
And so there we have a GitLy CI job, which is basically
a BAS script that builds bias bits.
And as a part of this CI job, so every time you commit any
change to bias bits repository, this CI job gets triggered,
and it will generate a bunch of build artifacts, which are
nothing but like pre-built binaries for things like
rub, Python, ACPI, CAC, et cetera.
And then all these build artifacts are pushed in a
well-defined location.
And there is a URL for it, and you can just go and
download those artifacts.
And so in the Kimu repository, what we do is we, in the
Kimu repository, we maintain the actual tests that
exercises ACPI and some bias tables.
So the actual tests are here in this location that are run
from within the bias bits environment.
And then there is a main driver to put all these things
together.
And this is the one, this is the main Avogadro test, ACPI
bits.py.
So when you are running the bias bits ACPI,
S&B bias test, you need to run this guy.
And what this guy does is that it pulls in these
changes, these test scripts, where you have potentially
added new changes for your stuff that has gone into
Kimu for ACPI.
And then it pulls in these build artifacts.
And together it generates an ISO here.
And then with this ISO, it spawns a Kimu VM and it
runs the tests.
Once the test is running, it collects the logs.
The logs are pushed out into outside the virtual machine
into a well-defined location.
This test script then analyzes the logs.
And then it says whether it failed or passed, depending on
how many tests it ran, whether it looks for certain
patterns and says, OK, this test failed or what have you.
So basically, this mechanism does two things.
First of all, you don't need to go back and forth between
the two repositories.
Everything that is bias-bit-specific resides here.
And if you're not concerned with bias-bits or if you don't
care about how it is built or what changes are in there,
you don't need to touch this repository.
All you need to do is just remain here.
So every time you make changes to ACPI implementation,
you add corresponding test code in here.
And then you run this guy.
This guy will pull in your changes, use the existing
artifacts, and you run your test.
Now, after it runs your test, this has some verbose mode
where it puts out more information in case there is
a failure.
So you can analyze the failure, make changes to these test
scripts, and again, rerun this guy.
So the advantage is that you are actually not,
you're already within the chemo repository in your workspace.
You're not going back and forth between the two.
And then, because a pre-built artifacts are being used,
generation of this ISO is a lot easier because these things
need not be built.
They're already built for you by the CI job.
All you need to do is put these test scripts together with
this guy and generate the ISO.
So this is what I just described all these points here.
And then, so let's look at the advantages which I briefly
described.
So, so no need to use some modules.
There are pre-built artifacts that makes it a lot easier.
And then if you need to make changes to the bias table,
as to bias bits, you make the changes, build new artifacts,
and you point the main test to the new artifacts.
And the other advantage is that when you release chemo in
turbos, that turbos does not have any bias bit specific
binaries.
They're completely mentored outside of the chemo repository.
So they're completely separate, and you don't need to release
chemo with any bias bits artifacts.
The disadvantage is that because we're using pre-built binaries,
therefore we are very architecture specific.
So right now we only support 64-bit X86, and it does not
support any other platforms.
And supporting other platforms is kind of non-trivial,
because you need to make sure bias bits can actually build
for those platforms, right?
And that is, and bias bits was never tested on platforms
other than X86.
So it's a non-trivial work anyway, right?
And then there is tool dependencies to build the ISO,
and the environment where you're running the test should have
those tools available.
So let's look at the overview of the changes that are in the
bias bits fork.
So like I said, bias bits was ever maintained after 2017,
so I had to make numerous changes to make bias bits build
with the latest toolchain and compiler, and changes were
across all these guys.
And I had to also upgrade a CPI-CA, because a CPI-CA is the
main driver that knows about various tables.
And if you don't upgrade a CPI-CA, you cannot write tests
that uses the newer tables.
So I had to upgrade a CPI-CA.
I had to find a mechanism to push the logs out so that the
test framework can analyze the logs.
I had to make sure that the console logs are available.
And one other thing is that the Python that runs from within
the bias bits VM is still Python 27 and not 3,
because upgrading Python is a non-trivial work.
And since it is a very closed environment, very controlled
environment, I didn't see the value of upgrading Python in that
environment.
So it is still running Python 2, whereas everything else in
Kimu is Python 3.
These are some of the useful resources, and you can have a
look at those resources.
This includes things like the Josh's presentation slides and
his talk on bias bits itself, which is a lot more details than
what I described about bias bits in this talk, and then the
details about the test framework itself, the fork that we
maintain here, et cetera.
So the last but not the least is, before I talk about demo,
is that I would really like to thank these guys.
Igor is originally proposed the idea of using bias bits for
exercising Kimu with the CPI tables, and so I'm grateful for
that.
And then all these other guys, they gave various useful
feedback throughout the process while I was submitting patches
upstream, and I'm grateful to all the reviewers of my
batch sets and the entire upstream Kimu community for help.
Lastly, if you really want to see a demo, there is no time for
this in this presentation, but you can click on this link, and
there is a video that describes a lot more details on actually
how to run the test and all the scripts within the repository.
So thank you so much, and now I can take questions if you have.
Yes.
I have a question.
What do you mean by Python?
I mean, what is that Python?
It's just a copy based on the built in Python?
No, no, it's Python.
The interpreter is built from source.
Wooden Biospits, it's actually, the Python is built from source.
So Python 2.7 is the one that Biospits uses, and it builds
everything because it has to build extensions so that it can
integrate with Grub.
So from Grub, you can actually run, you can say Pi, and then
you can run a Python script.
So all that happened because it was built from source with
integration with Grub.
The only problem is that it's a Python 2.7, and I didn't see the
value upgrading it to 3, but you can actually run the whole
Python script, and that's how all the tests work, because they're
all running from Grub, but they're full-fledged Python 2.7
scripts.
So it's a full-fledged one, not only certain API that you can use?
No, no, it's a full Python.
Any other questions?
Thanks.
Thank you.